---
title: &title Tries
description: *title
summary: *title
redirect_to: &redirect https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1carB-JprGVhHXW83c7orLVMjKi9bh5pyAsLFIGCp3G8/edit?usp=sharing
canonical_url: *redirect
---

Tries
Draw the trie containing all the words in: “she sells sea shells by the sea shore”. Omit null references to keep your drawing simple.








Then, identify the subtree containing all words starting with “se”.
1

Implicit data storage
We learned that tries don’t need to maintain the current character in each node; instead, the algorithms operating on the trie implicitly keep track of the current character. Explain how the containsKey method works in plain English.
private boolean containsKey(Node root, String term, int index) {
    if (root == null) {
        return false;
    } else if (index == term.length()) {
        return root.isTerm;
    } else {
        Node next = root.children[term.charAt(index) - 'a'];
        return containsKey(next, term, index + 1);
    }
}
2

Ternary search trees
What node represents the string CAC? Where would we insert the string CCC?
3
A
C
C
G
G
C
G
C
C
A
G
C
C
1
2
3
4
5
6
*
*
*
*
*
*
*

Collecting strings
Consider the collect method, which can be used to collect all the strings in a TST.
List<String> list = new LinkedList<>();collect(overallRoot, "", list);
Why add node.data in the mid case? Why are the recursive calls in this order?
4
void collect(Node node, String prefix, List<String> list) {
    if (node == null) {
        return;
    }
    collect(node.left, prefix, list);
    if (node.isTerm) {
        list.add(prefix + node.data);
    }
    collect(node.mid, prefix + node.data, list);
    collect(node.right, prefix, list);
}

Tries vs TSTs
In contrast to tries, why is it necessary for TSTs to store the character in each node?



What is the worst-case height of a TST containing N strings each up to length L?



What is the worst-case height of a trie containing N strings each up to length L?
5

6
Robert Sedgewick and Kevin Wayne. 2022. Tries. In COS 226 Spring 2022.

7
Robert Sedgewick and Kevin Wayne. 2022. Tries. In COS 226 Spring 2022.
